I loved history in school but what I got
taught didn't resonate with me I got
taught names of kings and queens of
princes and princesses but nothing about
anybody who looked like me 19:19 was a
year of change instability and
uncertainty all over the UK race riots
broke out five people got killed dozens
were injured and were still living with
this legacy did I learn about the 1919
race riots in school confounded there's
more so about British white soldiers
that we learned about they did not learn
about the 1919 rose during my school
period this is the story of a British
lynching the old history you don't learn
in school a hundred years ago Britain
had won the war but had been hit hard
economically when millions of soldiers
sailors and airmen returned from the
front lines expecting a hero's welcome
and to settle back into their old lives
they were met with job shortages and
mass unemployment but till the First
World War
Britain's black population was minimal
it was around 10,000 people scattered
around the country but concentrated in
the port towns like Liverpool and
Cardiff one paper said they live in
distinct foreign colonies another call
it the Negro Quarter and even
tone people began to look suspiciously
at these newcomers the black and Asian
population became an easy target for the
frustrations despite suffering from the
many same economic hurdles they were
blamed for undercutting wages the
soldiers would have been like working on
lower-class slack we're men who've come
back after four years of strife and
hardship in the struggle which they had
but in having their anger of not
revealing oh it's not your government's
problem is because these black guys are
here white workers began to demand
changes in Liverpool blacks was sacked
because whites refused to work alongside
them I think it's just
how people's lives can get you to be
just like turned upside down just at the
whim of other people's decisions beyond
their control
it's whiskas is still going on today in
terms of immigration just as tensions
were rising about jobs there was another
problem some people didn't like the idea
of racial mixing in Cardiff the press
noted the sex problem saying interracial
relationships were repugnant and
produces a state of violent resentment
from the part of the relative of the
misguided goes on women so all of this
started based on the fact that white
women thought the black men were
superior to white men there are not
yours they meant to be for us
Jana Venter have opinions in terms of
women they're thinking whatever opinions
no matter have ideas don't have eyes for
anyone else past on the fifth of June
1919 in a pub on George Street in
Liverpool a fight broke out between a
group of Scandinavian and a group of
black sailors but when the police
arrived guess what they only arrested
the black sailors nearby a mob begins to
gather meanwhile 24 year-old Charles
Woodson who was not part of the riot
suddenly became a target of the mob
Charles is hunted through the city by
two policemen and the mob he arrived
that Queens dog and somehow he ended up
in the water
a crowd of as many as 300 people began
to throw rocks at him as he tried to
swim away bystander stood watched and
shouted let him drown Charles Woodson
was murdered
a victim of the race riots of 1919 he
was lynched hearing the story of Charles
made me feel angry and frustrated that
this happened but also disappointed in
how it has been remembered it's just
another one in the list of many names
and many unnamed people that have been
killed due to racism when I was a kid my
grandma said to me if you were afraid of
the most under the bed and call it out
and that became my way to run towards
things to confront them but what could
Charles do he had an angry mob of 300
people intent on killing him he was
murdered in plain sight this was not a
local phenomenon similar events took
place all across the UK not only
immigrants were targeted but anyone who
associated with them in Cardiff a mob
stripped a white woman who was married
to a black man and knocked out a front
teeth with a baseball bat
when the chaos began to settle the
government's response was to fear a
black backlash they wanted to get rid of
the black immigrants they even paid for
them to leave sadly many of those who
were repatriated who fought for this
country would have thought a massive
sense of injustice about being sent away
from what they considered to be their
motherland their sense of Britishness
was not enough to convince the
authorities or the general public that
they had the right to stay here
what's worse in many cases they were
blamed for the riots of 1919 despite
having to defend themselves from white
mobs no one was convicted for the murder
of Charles Wilton
[Music]
you